Personal Information 

Bo Kim Tran 

s3954173 

s3954173@student.rmit.edu.au 

(Profile Picture) 


I was born in Australia but I am half-Chinese and half-Vietnamese 

In 2019, I undertook a traineeship in Certificate III in Business with Apprenticeship Support Australia where I have been working as a Client Service Officer for almost 2.5 years. 

I capable of speaking Cantonese which has allowed me communicate easily with a larger variety of clients. 

I have a pet dog named Vilo. He is a Cavoodle (cross between Poodle and Cavalier King Charles Spaniel) and is the cutest thing to enter my life since COVID has happened! I have spoiled him rotten so now he stalks me around the house seeking my love and attention. 


 

 

 

Interest in IT 

What is your interest in IT? When did your interest in IT start?  
Was there a particular event or person that sparked your interest? Outline your IT experience (if any).  

In IT, I am most interested with software development and cybersecurity. The pursuit started in high-school when I attended an IT career seminar held at RMIT. A number of companies attended but the most noteworthy were WiseTech and Adobe. I became inspired by their success stories, the different apps they had created and their influence on the world, and so I decided that I wanted to be part of that revolutionary change that these companies and people were a part of. 

The interest in software development grew from my own experience programming with Python and developing a number of small projects over the years since graduating from high-school. My projects ranged from a simple calculator to a budgeting app that keeps track of finances and provides information to help an end-user target particular issues with their budget. I enjoyed the problem solving, creative design, experimentation and learning aspects that came from this experience 

For cybersecurity, the main motivation admittedly originated from the prospects of high pay and the romanticism of being a computer hacker. However, after researching the industry and roles, I became drawn and motivated to the concept that I could be learning vital skills/knowledge to protect myself, my family and other people from cyber-attacks or scams. I also liked the idea of gathering information like a detective and having the legal immunity (when granted by the client) to attempt infiltration into a physical workplace or into their systems. 

 

 

Why did you choose to come to RMIT? 

 I decided to go to RMIT because I believed it would be the place to provide me the best education and industry connections that I need to succeed. My choice was further cemented from a work colleague who recommended the course to me after graduating from the Bachelor of IT at RMIT. 

 

 

What do you expect to learn during your studies? 

I expect I will draw valuable information and knowledge from my teachers and industry professionals. I want to learn from their experiences, the challenges they face, the career path they have taken so that I can continue my exploration into new pathways that I have yet to discover. It will also give me insights in the industry that I can infer whether or not I'll enjoy certain career paths. I'd like to learn industry standard skills that will boost my prospects to achieving a high paying career and even the possibility of starting my own business. Finally, I want to develop my networking skills so that I can create multiple connections in the industry for more career opportunities. 

 

 

 

Ideal Job 

 

https://www.seek.com.au/job/55868282?type=promoted#sol=a9034acb9ee4e7ab2bd72655b0578ac1056cb7da 

 

Description of the position and why it's appealing 

The Position's role and duties primarily revolves around ensuring the safety and security of the business' network and data. It seems to be a role where you would devote most of your skills and knowledge to monitoring, creating strategies or utilising tools to prevent security issues/attacks or formulate a quick response. When you're not doing performing those duties, you're also promoting, training and teaching others in the organisation about the threats and risks that are current and how to respond/prevent falling victim. 

I find the role appealing in general for 3 reasons: 

The role description and mission strongly aligns with my goal to utilise my skills to protect myself or others from online threats. This role allows me to heavily focus on the Security Operations of a business and also have opportunities to teach others so that they can then protect themselves and those they know. 

SEEK is a company with a good reputation. Having visited their office in person, I was very impressed with their mission statement, their facilities and overall company culture. They provide lots of employee benefits and have great values that align with my moral compass. 

Most roles within cybersecurity have an average salary of $100k which is an amount I am ambitious to achieve and earn in my career. 

Skills, qualifications and experience 

Skills – Soft skills required would include communication, attention-to-detail, problem-solving and flexibility. 

Communication skills in this role are required as you will be liaising with both internal and external stakeholders. You'll need to build a relationship within the business to effectively promote the security culture and with external stakeholders for excellent client service overall 

Security monitoring will require great vigilance and attention-to-detail in order to catch any security threats and develop an appropriate response. 

Problem-solving and flexibility are intertwined because security threats are always changing so you'll need to constantly keep up to date to effectively develop the strategies and responses to combat them. It is also unlikely for one to deal with the same exact scenario so it's especially crucial to resolve cases quickly, otherwise the severity of it will increase exponentially.  

Qualifications 

No formal degree/certification is required but it may prove useful to being a desirable candidate 

Experience 

Past experience in the cybersecurity field and crucial understanding of different networking tools and OS are all required. 

Extra experience with Python, PowerShell, DevOps on AWS platforms are desirable but not required to perform the role. 

Skills, qualifications and experience I currently have 

My role as a Client Service Officer has the same demands for soft skills so I believe I already have these skills to meet the requirements of a Security Analyst. It would be easily transferrable and applicable despite being in different fields. 

I currently don't have any formal qualifications to make me desirable as a Security Analyst, however working towards the Bachelor of IT and TCM Security's "Practical Network Penetration Tester (PNPT) Certifications can prove to make me a highly desirable candidate 

I also have no formal experience that can be applied except for having stakeholder engagement and relationship building experience. 

I plan to achieve the qualifications and experience I need by first completing the Bachelor of IT and choosing units that help me specialise into this role. If an opportunity for an internship or career within cybersecurity is available, I will immediately apply for the opportunity. After completing the Bachelor of IT, I plan to complete additional certifications like the mentioned PNPT certification so I become a better candidate. 

 

 

Personal Profile 

 
